SEAMS STORY - PROLOGUE

N.B. not much, if any, of the prologue will actually be "used", this is just to get a framework for what kind of story is happening so that we are all on the same page in understanding the settings and characters. Who knows we could use some of this early story for secret lore or something.

Three and a half years ago, a 31 year old Ted Hemmings was involved in a tragic disaster severely injuring himself, his friend Myles as well as potentially several others, information of which was never released to the public. Myles suffered a broken collarbone and a large scar across his left hand, but Ted got the bunt of the damage, having his upper jaw torn clean off with some minor first degree burns covering his scalp. Myles recovered quickly, and soon was his old self again, although a bit stiffer than usual. However Ted was hospitalised for weeks. Put into a medically induced coma on his second day in the hospital, doctors quickly realised Ted would never recover from his deformation. The doctors did all they could to save the poor man, stitching and sewing his flesh back together, even at times opting to remove some skin from his torso and reattaching it to his face, and still the man seemed half made of stitches. A month had passed and everyone had lost hope; the doctors, Ted's family, and most importantly Myles, who was so sad to see his friend go and wished it could've been him instead. Suddenly, to absolutely everyone's surprise, Ted jolted in his bed, slowly pulling himself up to look around. Myles was the first to see and rushed to greet him, but something was... different.... . Ted lashed out at Myles and started foaming at the mouth, making incoherent noise while veins started to bulge around his bloodshot eyes. Myles backed away, startled. He reassured Ted that it was his old college friend, Myles, but Ted didn't seem to hear. Two nurses quickly rushed in and restrained Ted, encouraging Myles to get a safe distance away from the room. The man lying in that bed was no longer Ted Hemmings.

After numerous medical examinations, Ted was admitted to a psychiatric ward in order to recover. While his initial aggression to the other patients was noticeable, his barbaric blabbering soon calmed to a husk silence. Ted was allowed his own room with a mirror, a bed, a chair, and other typical things. This particular psychiatric hospital left all the doors unlocked to allow an easy way to access and monitor patients, whilst giving the patients the freedom to visit the main living space and interact. Ted didn't partake in many activities nor interract with many other patients. However one thing the night nurses continued to notice was Ted constantly picking at his wounds and scabs as he gazed longingly into his mirror. Soon he began wondering the bathrooms at night collecting toothpicks, floss and bits of dust. Ted seemed relatively harmless at this point, if not a bit eerie, the other patients treated him as an outcast, referring to him as "Stitchface", poking fun at his deformaties and accusing him of committing a crime to get in there. Myles even visited once in a while, but Ted was never interested. About a month after his admittance, Ted was still in a vulnerable, anti-social state. His wounds were mostly healed, however doctors had started to notice lines of blood running across parts of his face. Nurses were told to keep a watchful eye on the patient, however one night when left alone, Ted leapt out of his bed and rushed to his mirror, pulling out a wad of toothpicks from his pockets before plucking one out and immediately jamming it into his face. From the cameras a security guard watched on, paralyzed with indecision before quickly telephoning for a nurse to be sent to Ted's room immediately. He watched on in an awry disgust as Ted wriggled the toothpicks in and out under his skin, weaving what appeared to be lines of floss attached to the ends of the toothpicks. Hot red blood spattered and trickled onto the walls as Ted screamed in pain, but did not hesitate as he thrust the second and third makeshift needles into his face. His flesh meshed around, his nose being ripped at the tendons. Finally, a nurse arrived to restrain him, but it was too late. The damage had been done. The Stitchface slumped to the floor in an agonising fetal position.

After miraculously being patched up a second time - ironically the damage was less than Ted's initial incident - Ted, or what was left of him, was re-admitted to the ward. He kept his old room, but all sharp and stringy objects were permanently removed from the premises. And this is where Ted. The Stitchface, remains for the next few years. His mangled, pulped face was a mesh of stitches, scars and different shades of rotting flesh. His family are gone, but he still gets visits from Myles, who continuously supports him. Urban legend around the ward has it that if you anger Stitchface, he will consume your flesh and make it part of his own skin, and that is where our story starts.

SEAMS STORY - PLOT ELEMENTS

MYLES MUST DIE. We see Myles multiple times across the days and nights, as a photo in Stitchface's room, in phone calls, maybe letters, and he could visit at the front desk once or twice to try and help us, but the player is forced to ignore him. This builds the relationship between the player and Myles, thinking Stitch is the bad guy for ignoring him, but this is before we hear his tragic story. Myles is killed by Stitch as the final boss of the game; obviously the player does not know it is Myles as Stitch's mind will be so corrupt with hallucinations that he sees Myles as another monster that you've been fighting against the whole game.

STITCH'S QUEST. Stitch's main motivation throughout the game is to escape. He is a silent protagonist and all the information we get is from one line of narration at the start of each day saying "You Must Escape". From there, NPC dialogue, signs, and item descriptions hint at what to do from there a la Kindergarten (game). The aim of the game is to unlock keycards to access the elevator, taking Stitch to different floors of the hospital. While he starts on the ground level/basement, Stitch can progress up one level using the keycard - which are only available at night - found in each floor (like a grand star unlocking new worlds in mario galaxy, for example). Stitchface can also return to any lower floor he has already been to using the vent system that passes right by his room. Accessing a new level of the hospital will in turn let you unlock a vent from the outside, giving permanent access up and back down to the hubroom, where Stitchface can store items, sleep etc. For instance if you get the keycard on level 1 and go up the elevator to level 2, you can unlock the vent on level 2 and climb back down it to level 1 where the hubroom is, allowing as a sort of fast travel for the day, and a shortcut at night so that you don't have to repeat the same night level every time after you initially beat it.

SECRET VHS. Because funny secret lore - and this isn't neccesary just pitching it - there could be a semi-obscure and tough series of events you need to do during the day, and then you have to go through ALL the levels without shortcuts in one night to reach a secret area where you can watch a secret VHS tape that could be live action where we hint at a bit more of the lore to the game mentioned in the prologue (like a news broadcast covering the incident) just as a little easter egg.

NPC'S HAVE STORIES TOO. Learn and help certain NPC's to gain items that will help in different parts of the game. Some items can be optional upgrades, like a greater vision radius at night, quicker running speed etc. Some items could be optional tools that lead to different areas of the floor, which in turn can make accessing the keycard easier. Some items are mandatory and at least one is needed to acquire the keycard. Some items are hints/maps. Some NPC's could give nothing on the first few levels, but if you pursue their quests they can be very helpful on the later floors.

NPC'S AND THEIR STORIES:

Dorothy: Dorothy is a delusional old woman believing WW2 is still going on. She has very pale hair and skin and often blurts out military slogans when someone walks past. She refuses to eat anything prepared by the kitchen for fear of it being tampered with. Dorothy also wants to escape, but she plans to build a spitfire and burst through the roof, as she believes she is in the air force. She can give you good equipment if you give her what she wants. She is quite immobile and a bit hard of hearing and sight, typical old woman attributes. I think your drawing of her is fine although i personally would make her a little wider just to emphasise that she's pretty vulnerable.

Mickey V: Mickey is a cutthroat sociopath who can't be trusted in a prison with other inmates. He constantly thinks people are scheming against him and watches people with a shifty eye. He mutters to himself about how he could kill certain people and brandishes a knife yelling "I'LL CUT YOU" if anyone steps close. He used to be in a gang so you'll want to learn his gang signs if you want him to trust you. Think Roberto from Futurama. I was thinking more mexican drug cartel 35 year old than gang teen, but i think making him black adds to the diversity which is good cos i was ONLY thinking white people for some reason lol. I think an older more mafia kinda guy is what would work better imo

Goggles: This bald, skinny man has a muzzle over his face and piercing white eyes. He doesn't speak or blink. He seems intimidating but unthreatening, and if you are nice you might get to see a secret cave he dug in the corner of his room with all sorts of things inside. Your one is perfect, I'd emphasise the whole face a little more just to show what he's got on his face cos it could be glasses or a muzzle, and he is VERY twinkish lmao.

Fergus: Fergus is the straight man and doesn't think he should be in the ward, despite being kept in a straightjacket. He begs you to help him get out and get back to his family, going insane by saying the nurses don't even talk to him. He has a strong fear/hatred of everyone there, especially Mickey V, and is willing do anything to take him down and steal Mickey's supplies. This is just a regular ass dude who doesn't have a quest and is there to diversify the roster and act aas a secondary character. I'm thinking straight white family businessman who is the complete opposite person you would expect in a place like this.

Big Claire: Big Claire is a brute, filled with bruises and warts, even Mickey doesn't bother her. She grunts and stumbles through the facility, the nurses all leave her alone. Dorothy takes a strange shining to her, believing Big Claire to be her copilot named Clarkson. She can't be swayed, but her brawn could help you in other ways. She is quite fat and ogre-ish, not speaking very much; your one looks a bit like a deranged mother which almost makes me feel sorry for her. IMO we shouldnt feel sorry for the npc's if we're trying to emphasise the theme of looking DISGUSTING on the outside but actually having a deep inside, like stitchface.

Seatbelt: Seatbelt believes he is a shopkeeper, selling all sorts of garbage he can find for money that he uses to draw pictures of his customers on. He's quite a lawful neutral, an incredibly un-opinionated man with thick glasses and quite a wide body. Your one looks alright but if anything it looks like he has TOO MUCH character. This guy should be a stand-in for a shop and maybe have only one tiny stupid quest that emphasises his basicness.

Jared: A very strong prisoner-type with killer sideburns. He doesn't shy away from a good fistfight and won't take shit from anyone. Often teams up with Mickey. Your one is pretty much perfect. Obviously in the ward itself he would be in a prisoner outfit type thing as all other patients are. Remember he has to have a reason to be in the ward and honestly he looks like a nice guy like a lumberjack maybe. I'd say emphasise the brutishness a little bit more, but otherwise he works fine.

SEAMS STORY - CREATIVE DECISIONS

Was thinking Myles could've been imaginary the whole time, or died in the accident and Stitch hallucinated him, but that wouldn't have had as greater impact on the ending, there needs to be consequences behind the actions.

QUESTS & TUTORIAL - SEAMS

DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE DAY:

Morning - mostly introductory, cutscene ends it
Meal - starts in the cafeteria, don't get caught sneaking out of the cafeteria during mealtime.
Visit - at the front desk, again mostly cutscene, go through a metal detector first
Afternoon - the main day
Room Inspection - Dr Lead inspects you in your room and gives you meds, usually a cutscene but can change
Night - escape

-- LEVEL 1 --

Upon starting the game, you read a note with tutorial on the hud plus character board. Just as you wake up and and you get the call over the intercom that breakfast for the first floor. Teaches you how to leave rooms, navigate areas, once you get there you meet the first 4 characters, and learn how to pick up things by picking up food. You get the scoop on how the elevators work next to the cafeteria, and how vents work. Your starting people are Dorothy and Goggles and Mickey. You are introduced to all their quirks. Primarily from Mickey who acts as the straight man, they all state how horrible it is there and how everyone wants to escape in their own way, none of which sound feasible. Mickey work in the kitchen, but his room is up one floor. From there you have lunch and can talk to the people, including the guards. Goggles will pass you a note if you talk to him with a cipher code on it saying JDPPG. Dorothy will express her plans to escape with a plane off the roof (introducing the roof concept), and claim how she doesn't trust the kitchen food and would love something smuggled in, claiming to make it worth our while (starts that overall quest). Talking to Mickey again makes him tell you about the lock on the cutlery box, and how he would love to get them knives out, he then says how he cannot solve the puzzle on the lock, leading to the tutorial on how to solve the puzzles. Successfully solving it opens the spoon drawer, which only has one plastic spoon left inside. Mickey says eh you can take it, I'll find a shank elsewhere. After eating your lunch, a guard claims you have a visitor, and you are taken the visitng desk, but you MUST pass a metal detector before going through. Cue the Myles scene. After that you return to the cafeteria. Mickey and Goggles are gone, but Dorothy is still there eating. You can talk to her or the guard, who doesnt offer any quests YET, but introduces you to him as a character. Dorothy mentions Goggles' secret cave in an unbelievable way. Leaving the cafeteria you are free to roam the whole area. 3 rooms including your own, Dorothy's room is a renovated supply closet with a throw bed put in, partly cos she doesn't know the difference. - GOGGLES PATH -  There is a keypad next to Dot's room from when it USED to be a locked supply closet. Put 53774 from the cipher Goggles gave to you (its based on the letters underneath the numbers) into it and it'll open up to a bunch of wires. Solve that puzzle and you get a battery. Go to Goggle's room (at anytime after lunch) and it'll say it's locked... but how? (There's a chair or something propped up on the otherside. I know you could knock it down if you were a guard or smthn but you dont wanna cause a mess.) If you have the battery, it'll encourage you to roll it under a crack in the door. If you do that, Goggles will open the door. Go in and there's a large curtain covering the corner of the room. Go towards it and you get snarled at by Goggles and invis walled. Interact with him and he'll hand you another note saying thank you and a lockpick for the stairs.  - DOROTHY PATH -  After Myles, go to Dorothy's room. Search around the back and you find a safe and a cardboard box among the old garbage. The safe will be important later. Open the cardboard box and there's a framed picture of a young Dorothy with her child and a plane in the background, and a penny. Inspect the framed picture to do a puzzle and remove the photograph. On the back is some lore and a sentence talking about how she loves grapes. You have peeled grapes in your room and they only become obtainable now get the grapes from your room and give them to Dorothy in the cafeteria. She'll thank you for the crackers and reward you with a "nickel" which she found in her supply closet, which happened to be a key(card) to the stairwell. Show her the picture and she doesn't recognise it, but notices the plane in the background. She tells you to keep it as she doesn't want it being confiscated into nazi hands. Return to your room and you get the option to store your items in a secret place, with only 3 spaces available. Depositing items takes a key activity (doesnt matter how many items you select, press deposit and it's a key activity). Run out of key activities, and you enter the next stage of the day with Dr Lead in your room. Lead will call you for a room inspection, claiming how he's too freaked out of Goggles to check the corner in his room. If you have any contraband in your inventory, Lead will permanently confiscate them (or chuck you in isolation maybe), and force you to take your meds before bed.

ITEMS POSSIBLE FOR THE ASSET LIST:
Lunch
Frame
Picture
Framed Picture (redundant)
Penny
Grapes (redundant)
Key(card)
Battery
Note with cipher
Note with thank you
Lockpick
Plastic Spoon

-- LEVEL 2 --

If you manage to get to level 2 (which will be during the night) then you will immediately be prompted to open the vent, or be forced to by a cutscene. This will put you back in your room on level 1, pseudo-ending the night. From there you can access that vent from the vent at the back of your room, like a level select almost. You spend the night in your own bed, and a graphic pops up saying that you've beaten the first night. The intercom plays again like yesterday, saying breakfast is served for the first floor. Head over to the cafeteria where the usual 3 plus security guard are. The security guard will remind everyone NOT to go to different floors. Everyone says a line to you like yesterday depending on how far through their quest is. Talk to Mickey again and he will mention how we shouldn't trust the big guy on floor 3, he always lies. He then asks if you want to team up with him to "rule the roost" and if you say yes he will ask you to prove your loyalty by depositing some of your blood in a little capsule that he gives you. He says he doesn't have anything sharp, so you will have to find something sharp yourself. If you took the goggles path in day 1, he won't be at mealtime. If you took the dorothy path, both of them will be there. Talking to dorothy regardless of the route will just make muffle back with food in her mouth. If you talk to goggles (only available after taking the dorothy path), he will pass you a different note than yesterday with a different puzzle on it (different note every day, collect them all for something). Talk to the guard and he'll say he needs a screwdriver, as a door on the top floor is stuck, he'll recommend checking goggles as he stores all sorts of things. he'll also mention the shopkeeper upstairs but say that he only sells useless things, he says he'll make it worth your while. After lunch you'll be told you have a visitor again. Go through the metal detector but if you have the BATTERY, PENNY, FRAME, FRAMED PICTURE, MAYBE KEY(CARD), it sets off and all the items you are holding are confiscated. At the front desk is another Myles visit. After that it's afternoon time, where you can go to the vent in your room and go upstairs. NOONE is in the kitchen except the guard, no matter the route. The keypad outside dorothy's room still works, but the battery is gone, regardless of the route. Inside Dorothy's room she is sitting up on her bed being all delusional and such. She thinks she's in a mission control area conducting a vital meeting with her board. As you walk in she says ah it's my assisstant, and ushers you next to her. Play along with her until the end (using up one REQUIRED item of either the plastic spoon or badge from Seatbelt's shop.) Doing so and she'll reward you with a magnet, which she believes is a medal rewarding a job well done. If you give her BOTH the required items, she also gives you a SILVER DOORLOCK (this will be important for the secret lore run). Regardless, as long as you give her at least one required item, she will tell you her plan to escape off the roof, and to meet her tomorrow at lunch where they will view the plans. The bonus collectables in her room are all gone from yesterday regardless of what you got, however today there is another penny in another corner of her room. Meanwhile in Goggles' room, if youre following his questline he will give you a NEW puzzle note with a picture of a knife on it, deciphering it gives you a CATCHPHRASE which you must say to Jared in order for him to give you a knife so you can give your blood to Mickey, and/or give the knife to Goggles, which in return he will give you another lockpick for that night. This is tougher than it seems however since Jared is on floor 3 and you only have access to the first 2. The way to lure Jared downstairs is to knock on the ceiling of Fergus's room since his is right below Jared's, but we'll come back to that later. If you DIDNT complete Goggles's questline on day one, he will still be in his room but won't accept any help from you, there is a broom in the corner of his room which is gettable. Going into the vent in your room and upstairs to access the 2nd floor. Fergus is running about in a straightjacket and doesnt have any quests, but you can talk to him and he will explain everyone who is living on the second floor in a flustered panic. He'll also state how Jared lives in the room above him. If you give him the note with THANK YOU on, he will give you an upgrade for the nightime and an achievement (completely optional). In Fergus's room you can find a picture on the wall which leads to a puzzle, solving the puzzle gives you a penny. In the corner it will prompt you to NOT knock on the ceiling as Jared will be PISSED. If you try to knock on it it will say you can't reach it, UNLESS you have the broomstick, then you can reach. Doing this makes Jared come downstairs, all the guards are too scared of him. He'll come into fergus's room to find you, and will kill you UNLESS you say his gang sign found by deciphering the second note on the GOGGLES questline. If you do that he will like you and give you a shank to protect yourself. You can then stab yourself and get some blood to give to Mickey tomorrow, you can also give the knife to Goggles for that lockpick mentioned before. If you go into Mickey's room, it's kinda a staff room so guards will be in there. They'll realise youre not meant to be there and send you back to your room. This doesn't really do anything EXCEPT that guard in the kitchen will have heard about your crime and not help you by accepting a screwdriver anymore. Seatbelt's shop is in the corridor, all home made. He offers a screwdriver, a night upgrade, a storage upgrade, a badge signifying you have evening free roam, and a SILVER DOORLOCK (important for the secret lore run). The first 4 are relatively well priced, but the final one is hella expensive. Buying the storage upgrades automatically upgrades the storage capacity in your room from 3 to 5. The currency he takes is pennies. He's a shop, no quests. Seatbelt also has a room, and theres a penny in a corner. Under his bed however is a series of puzzles, of which you can only do one per day. If you manage to buy the screwdriver from Seatbelt's shop and go back to the guard in the kitchen, you can give it to him and he'll thank you for the help and say he'll turn a blind eye at mealtime the next day. You get an achievement for this. At the end of the corridor on the 2ND FLOOR is a machine that, if you put the battery in it OR use the magnet OR use a screwdriver, you can get a key(card) out of it, but will take away that item. Get the lockpick or the keycard and you're good to open the second set of stairs that night. Moving onto the room inspection for that evening, and if you have the BADGE Dr Lead will reluctantly let you out, but its one use so he takes it away when you come back in. Since Lead is in your room you cant access the vent, however Mickey will be in the back of the cafeteria, all the other patient doors will be locked. Give Mickey your capsule of blood and he will trust you, giving you a sealed package which is part of his plan to escape and to talk to him tomorrow morning where he can sneak you into the package place because he isnt allowed back there. If you open the sealed package, it's a bomb, you're dead. Easter egg achievement death if you take it back to your room and open it while Lead has his back turned instead of tucking it away in your storage. If you go back and don't have the blood, he'll just brush you off. But if you have the knife and haven't cut yourself for the blood, HE will take the knife and accidentally over-enthusiastically kill you. You get an achievement. Other than that, that's the end of the day, time to escape to level 3 during the night!

ITEMS POSSIBLE FOR THE ASSET LIST: FLOOR 2

Little capsule (empty)
Little capsule (Full of blood)
Magnet
Silver Doorlock 1
Silver Doorlock 2
Second Goggles Note (non-questline)
Goggles Catchphrase note
Pennies (stack is the same but with x2, x3 etc.)
Broom
Knife (not bloody)
Knife (bloody)
Screwdriver
Night Upgrade
Storage Upgrade
Evening roam badge
2nd floor Key(card)
2nd lockpick
Sealed Package
Bomb

-- LEVEL 3 --

After getting to level 3, you are once again encouraged to open the vent next to the stairwell, this leads back to both level 2 as well as your room in level 1. This ends the night and gets the player ready for the next day. You once again get the call for lunch in the cafeteria and a guard escorts you the guard escorts you there. If you got him the screwdriver yesterday, he will say how he'll turn a blind eye if you want to sneak around at lunch, as long as you don't get into trouble, he says the staff room is empty this early but thinks you don't have a way up there. In the cafeteria is the usual crew, with Mickey serving. If you're on Dorothy's path, she will tell her escape plan but needs to know the available times she can go, she says she has everything in her room ready but needs you to place a bug in the higher ups room, somewhere with guards. Talk to Goggles on his questline and he'll give you another puzzle note, this time with the combination to the safe from dorothy's room from day 1 on it. Talk to Mickey on his line and he will say you need to place the package in the staff room and he will activate it remotely. He says there is a dumb waiter in the back of the kitchen and the staff aren't in proper yet, so he says he can sneak you in through the dumb waiter without causing any attention by leaving himself. Going through the dumb waiter takes you to the staff room, where you are prompted to place the bomb in the corner. You can also place Dorothy's bug in there, alternatiely, if you're in kahoots with the guard, you can just go out the cafeteria, through the vent and go to the other floors, including the staff room where you can place the bug. Leaving the staff room the normal way and entering the cafeteria will be fine, if the guard is good with you nothing will happen, if the guard isnt a friend he will just be confused and tell you to sit back down. If you take the dumb waiter back down, it will malfuction and drop you down into a damp basement like area with Goggles' secret lair inside, it looks abandoned by the staff and has a giant drill machine looking like it's pretty much ready. Just before the dumb waiter hits the floor however, Mickey grabs the rope, saying he's got you, and hoists you back up. After that cutscene you can no longer access the dumb waiter since Mickey won't be there to operate it with you inside (he's still there at lunch, but theres no reason to go in it again). If you have friendly guard access you can go out to the corridor. Dorothy and Goggles' rooms are locked. Going upstairs Seatbelt's shop is open, he's selling the same things but if you bought something(s) yesterday, it's/they're replaced with another battery/storage upgrade 5-8 he's also additionally selling an apple. You can go into his room and solve the second daily puzzle under his bed, this time rewarding you only with a penny and no extra passes. Fergus is still in his room and it is locked. The security room is locked. On floor 3 you can meet Big Claire blocking the entrance to her room, talk to her and she just grumbles. Go into Jared's room and it's smashed to pieces, you can find a penny and a security room key in there, trying to enter the security room on level 2 with this key says "you can't go in here yet". Back on level 3, knocking on solitary confinement prompts Jared to peak out the peephole. If you didn't befriend him, he'll immediately slam it shut. If you befriended him, he'll say ohhh its you, and tell you to meet him that evening in solitary and to bring some meat. Then he'll hand you a powerful battery and shut the door. Back in the cafeteria, if you manage to bug the staff room, talk to dorothy and she will say thanks and to visit her room during the afternoon. If you manage to place the package in the staff room, talk to Mickey and he will say nice. He'll press the button but nothing will happen, so he says the device needs a battery. Give him the super powerful battery and he say that's for heavy machinery, it won't fit. Give him a regular battery and he'll say ok here we go, but at the last second change his mind and says we'll do it this evening and to meet him like last night in the cafeteria and that he'll distract Dr Lead when the time comes. Goggles' quest can't be solved yet cos Dorothy's door is locked, and even on replay-throughs the safe wont be able to be opened unless the third note has been gotten. Upon running out of key events the guard says lunch is over and how normally you have a visitor but even he gave up on you (the guard is being a meanie). So instead you go straight to afternoon free time, after a brief fade-to-black to progress the day and reorganise all the characters. This is where things get complicated so I'm gonna write for each questline and you can refer to different questlines/the flowchart if anything doesnt make sense, but since this is the last day this has gotta be the escape days. -- AFTERNOON TIME -- you are back in the cafeteria with everyone who's questlines you are on NOT in there, otherwise it's the usual 3. N.B. Anytime you talk to someone but aren't on their questline they won't engage and will mutter some npc nonsense. -- DOROTHY QUESTLINE -- Go talk to Dorothy in her room, she has plans scattered everywhere. If you didnt bug the staff room at lunch, she'll tell you the nazi's have come back from lunch break and to find a different area to bug. Instead you can go upstairs and open the security room door with the key from Jared's room. If you don't have that already you have to find it. Opening the security room shows a giant bunch of monitors and two empty seats with an open side door on the side that you can't enter. Bug the room by placing the bug on the desk at the front and when you do that, you hear voices from the side room. Get out of there before the guards come back in (you cant die to them, they only come back in once you leave). If you try to go back in after this, the guards'll see you and tell you to get out, thinking they accidentally left the door open. Talk to dorothy and she'll have the bugged info the same way as if you talk to her after bugging the staff room. She says we escape tonight and to meet her on the roof and gives you a keycard for roof access. That evening get through the dr Lead stuff as normal and don't disobey him. That night go to the roof and there's a makeshift plane with dorothy next to it. Talk to her and gets in it, telling you to kickstart the engine at the back. As soon as you do it shoots off, dorothy yells sorry but then yippee kayays away. Cue the fight with Myles. -- GOGGLES QUESTLINE -- After lunch, go to Dorothy's room and solve the safe. Inside the safe is a confidential documents. Read them and it gives some backstory on all the patients. There's also red ink circling Big Claire "she has the final piece". Goggles' room is locked, prompting you once again to slide something under it. Go all the way upstairs and talk to Big Claire who is now inside her room. She doesn't trust you and says she needs food before she can trust you. Give her EITHER grapes from your room, or the apple from seatbelt's shop. Doing this means she will assume you're here for the piece, say yes and she'll give you a can of apple cider. As you leave the room she'll stop you and ask one thing, am i beautiful? Say yes and she'll be happy, say no and she'll be sad but she appreciates the honesty. This is just an end to Big Claire's story because she doesn't have her own questline. Roll the can of apple cider under Goggles's door and he'll open up. He leads you behind the curtain into his cave where he shows you his giant drill. He pours the apple cider into the fuel tank. As he does this you are free to roam the area. You can pick up a penny and a "time manipulator" which can change the time on any device. Talking to Goggles again will lead him to give you a battery and prompt you to put it in the battery slot on the side of the drill. When interacting with the battery slot, you are given the option to put in the battery or the power battery if you were given it by Jared. You can leave the cave and come back to it if you want, but the quest won't end until you place a battery in the slot. Place the battery in and a cutscene will activate. Goggles will get into the drill car and start it up, gesturing you get in with him. But before you do that, Fergus rushes in and jumps into your seat, saying drive man drive lets get out of here! If you placed the regular battery in, they will then burrow out the side of the basement wall before the entrance to the burrowed passage collpases in on itself, meaning you cant follow. The commotion will cause a guard to run down there, saying wow you discovered Goggles's secret, I gotta alert the team and catch these guys! And then the guard runs off. Placing the power battery in overclocks the machine, and it rushes so fast into the wall that it swerves and crashes, killing the two men in the process. You can pick up their "meat" if you want to for Jared's questline. The commotion will cause the guard to run in, say the same stuff as the regular battery, but then say he needs a cleanup team to mop up the mess, then leaves. Regardless of the battery outcome, a roof keycard can be found underneath where the drill car was. End of Goggles's questline. -- MICKEY QUESTLINE -- Mickey won't be seen until that evening, when he comes in to tell Dr Lead there's been a break-in to his office. Lead leaves and Mickey takes you to the cafeteria. From there he hits the button and hands it to you before running upstairs. You hear him yell to the guards that you did it because you were holding the button, and he escapes out a giant hole in the staffroom (you cant see this during actual gameplay cos there's no way to get back in there.) The guards come to see you and say they knew mickey was the one who did it, they just wanted a way to get rid of him. They send you back to your room. In your room a cutscene plays where you open the back of the button and get the battery back but also a roof keycard. Then you put it in your cubby before Lead comes back in and says what a trickster mickey is and gives you your meds. -- JARED QUESTLINE -- If you're still on the Jared questline from yesterday but didn't speak to him during lunchtime, you can still go back upstairs and speak to him during afternoon time and the quest will play out the same. There are 3 ways to get meat for Jared; if you held on to the knife you can go to Big Claire's room and stab her, she's so fat she won't even feel the meat being carved off her. OR you can put the power battery Jared gives you into Goggles' drill-car, requires you to be on the Goggles path. OR you can get some meat from a sandwich by talking to Dorothy in the cafeteria, assuming you're not on her questline. If you're not on the Mickey questline; Mickey will STILL come and distract Dr Lead that evening, but Mickey will lock your door behind him to stop you getting out if you're not on the Mickey questline. This means you have the option to store important items/use the vent to go to different floors. Go up to Jared in solitary and give him the meat. He says he has a master plan and closes the door, you hear him eating it then he reopens the doors fully this time and says lets get you outta here. He goes to the roof staircase and punches it open, saying it doesnt need a key anymore and you can get out at any time. Then he leaves out the roof way. This means you dont need a keycard or lockpick to open it on that night but you are taken in a cutscene back to your room through the vent because Dr Lead is making his way back. End of questline. -- SEATBELT QUESTLINE -- Seatbelt doesn't have a "questline" but you need the final silver doorlock from him. To do this you need to complete the final puzzle on the daily puzzle thing under his bed, and to do that you need a digital time disrupter. You can find one in the following places: In Goggles' secret cave, in Fergus's room if he's still alive during the final evening vent crawl whilst Mickey is distracting Lead. You have to talk to Fergus and help him calm down before he gives it to you though. After getting a time disruptor you need to go into Seatbelt's room, (he's always at his store and never sleeps dw), and use it on the daily puzzle machine under his bed to make it malfunction and show the last puzzle. Solving this final puzzle opens the final hatch aand thousands of pennies pour out. You can then buy the second silver doorlock from him and use it, as well as the one from dorothy yesterday, to unlock the secret final ending on the roof. There's a little door off to the side on the roof, and it needs both silver doorlocks to open. Opening it takes to you a little room with a CRT tv. Watch it and it plays a news story ft. Jan talking about StitchFace's horrific incident. Just a bit of Lore just a bit o fun. -- STITCHFACE QUESTLINE -- Get to the roof using any of the questlines available. Once there you must take down the biggest hallucination of them all, once done, the sun starts rising and it turns out to be Myles. You KILLED him. Cutscene plays where you inspect his body and find an envelope. Read it and it says dear ted i come with good news the doctors say you're chill af and gonna release you soon, i always believed in you when noone else did. love myleywoo. THE END ROLE CREDITS.

ITEMS POSSIBLE FOR THE ASSETS LIST: LEVEL 3/ROOF
Apple
Microphone Bug
Silver Doorlock 2
Goggles' note 3
Super Powerful Battery
Confidential Documents
Ham Sandwich
Misc. Meat
Level 3 Keycard
Security Room Key
Digital Time Hacker (just make it a circuit board)
Can of Apple Cider

~~ Itch.io blurb ~~

SEAMS is a 2D adventure game where you are put in the ill-trodden shoes of Stitchface; a silent man with a freakishly sewn together face and a rather threatening aura. Your mission is to escape the awful psychiatric hospital you have been locked up in by solving puzzles, collecting items, and helping your fellow conniving convicts with their own delusional quests. Over several days you must gain access to higher levels of the facility, finding out the backstories of the patients and the secrets of the ward. But come nighttime, you must face your OWN demons as you stealth your way closer and closer to freedom.